RAGA Workflow
A. Same Species as Reference 
1. correcting reference
RAGA firstly uses minimap2 to compare the query HiFi reads with the query contigs fasta, in order to filter out potential another haplotype reads. Then, based on minimap2 and racon, the filtered query HiFi reads are used to iterate correct the reference genome to obtain a mixed genome that is closer to the query genome. 
2. alignment
Taking mixed genome as reference, query contigs fasta is scaffolded by RagTag to obtain query scaffolds fasta. The mixed genome and query scaffolds fasta are aligned by nucmer, and the alignment is filtered and formatted by delta-filter and show-coords. Based on the location information of gaps output by RagTag, the alignment block extraction near the gaps area is completed. Finally, RAGA will obtain high-quality alignment blocks with mixed genome located near the gaps of query scaffolds fasta. 
3. partial hybrid assembly
Minimap2 was used to align query HiFi reads to mixed genome. According to the coordinates of high-quality alignment block in mixed genome, query HiFi reads with overlap with block were extracted to obtain block query HiFi reads.According to the coordinates of high-quality alignment block in mixed genome, the corresponding mixed genome sequence was extracted as block query ONT UL reads.
Hifiasm was used to perform partial hybrid assembly of block query HiFi reads and block query ONT UL reads for each block in turn to complete the generation of raw long sequences. 
4. filtering
Minimap2 was used to align each block query HiFi reads with its block assembly, and samtools was used to calculate the block alignment, filtering out the block assembly sequences with block query HiFi reads covering breakpoints. Minimap2 was used to align the filtered block assembly sequences with query contigs fasta, filtering out the block assembly sequences that were completely similar to and significantly different from query contigs fasta. Finally, shorter block assembly sequences were filtered out to complete the generation of RAGA final long sequences.


B. Different species as reference 
1. correcting reference
RAGA uses query HiFi reads to iterate correct the reference genome based on minimap2 and racon to obtain a mixed genome that is closer to the query genome. 
2. alignment
Using mixed genome as a reference, we performed alignment with query HiFi reads using minimap2. We filtered the alignment of each read, retaining only the alignment with the main alignment "tp:A:P" and the accurate alignment length accounting for 99% of the total length of the reads. We used bedtools to merge the alignment regions of each filtered read, filtering out shorter alignments. 
3. partial hybrid assembly
Same as the process with the same species as input. 
4. filtering
The minimap2 was used to align each block query HiFi reads with its block assembly, and the samtools were used to statistically analyze the results, filtering out the block assembly sequences that had block query HiFi reads covering breakpoints. Finally, the shorter block assembly sequences were filtered out to complete the generation of RAGA's final long sequences.
